AFPPASSWD(1)                                                  Netatalk 2.2                                                 AFPPASSWD(1)

NAME
       afppasswd - netatalk password maintenance utility

SYNOPSIS
       afppasswd [-acfn] [-p passwd file] [-u minimum uid]

DESCRIPTION
       afppasswd allows the maintenance of afppasswd files created by netatalk for use by the uams_randnum.so UAM (providing the
       "Randnum exchange" and "2-Way Randnum exchange" User Authentication Modules).

       afppasswd can either be called by root with parameters, or can be called by local system users with no parameters to change
       their AFP passwords.

           Note
           With this utility you can only change the passwords used by two specific UAMs. As they provide only weak password
           encryption, the use of the "Randnum exchange" and "2-Way Randnum exchange" UAMs is deprecated unless one has to support very
           old AFP clients, that can not deal with the more secure "DHCAST128" and "DHX2" UAM instead. Please compare with the
           Authentication chapter inside Netatalk´s documentation.

EXAMPLE
       Local user changing their own password:

           example% afppasswd
           Enter NEW AFP password: (hidden)
           Enter NEW AFP password again: (hidden)
           afppasswd: updated password.

OPTIONS
       -a
           Add a new user to the afppasswd file.

       -c
           Create and/or initialize afppasswd file or specific user.

       -f
           Force the current action.

       -p path
           Path to afppasswd file.

       -n
           If cracklib support is built into netatalk this option will cause cracklib checking to be disabled, if the superuser does
           not want to have the password run against the cracklib dictionary.

       -u minimum uid
           This is the minimum user id (uid) that afppasswd will use when creating users.

SEE ALSO
       afpd(8), atalkd(8).

Netatalk 2.2                                                  31 May 2011                                                  AFPPASSWD(1)
