ATALKD.CONF(5)                                                Netatalk 2.2                                               ATALKD.CONF(5)

NAME
       atalkd.conf - Configuration file used by atalkd(8) to determine the interfaces used by the master Netatalk daemon

DESCRIPTION
       /usr/local/etc/netatalk/atalkd.conf is the configuration file used by atalkd to configure the Appletalk interfaces and their
       behavior

       Any line not prefixed with # is interpreted. The configuration lines are composed like:

       Interface [ options ]

       The simplest case is to have either no atalkd.conf, or to have one that has no active lines. In this case, atalkd should
       auto-discover the local interfaces on the machine. Please note that you cannot split lines.

       The interface is the network interface that this to work over, such as eth0 for Linux, or le0 for Sun.

       The possible options and their meanings are:

       -addr net.node
           Allows specification of the net and node numbers for this interface, specified in Appletalk numbering format (example: -addr
           66.6).

       -dontroute
           Disables Appletalk routing. It is the opposite of -router.

       -net first[-last]
           Allows the available net to be set, optionally as a range.

       -noallmulti (linux only)
           On linux the interfaces, atalkd uses, are set to ALLMULTI by default caused by countless NICs having problems without being
           forced into this mode (some even don´t work with allmulti set). In case, you´ve a NIC known to support multicasts properly,
           you might want to set this option causing less packets to be processed

       -phase ( 1 | 2 )
           Specifies the Appletalk phase that this interface is to use (either Phase 1 or Phase 2).

       -router
           Like -seed, but allows single interface routing. It is the opposite of -dontroute.

       -seed
           The seed option only works if you have multiple interfaces. It also causes all missing arguments to be automagically
           configured from the network.

       -zone zonename
           Specifies a specific zone that this interface should appear on (example: -zone "Parking Lot"). Please note that zones with
           spaces and other special characters should be enclosed in parentheses.

SEE ALSO
       atalkd(8)

Netatalk 2.2                                               22 September 2000                                             ATALKD.CONF(5)
